
# Spell Checker in Java
This project is a simple spell checker implemented in Java. The application reads in a dictionary of words from a specified text file and uses a hash table to check the spelling of words in another text file. If a word from the input file is not found in the dictionary, it is considered as misspelled. The application also generates suggestions for misspelled words.

# Usage
- Initialisation

To create an instance of the spell checker, the filename of the dictionary needs to be passed to the constructor. This will load all the words from the file into a HashSet.

```SpellChecker spellChecker = new SpellChecker("path_to_dictionary.txt");```

- Checking for incorrect words

To check a file for spelling mistakes, the filename of the input text file needs to be passed to the getIncorrectWords method. This will return a List of all misspelled words.

```List<String> incorrectWords = spellChecker.getIncorrectWords("path_to_input_file.txt");```

- Getting spelling suggestions

To get spelling suggestions for a word, the word should be passed to the getSuggestions method. This will return a Set of possible corrections. The suggestions are generated by:

1. Adding a character at every point in the string (including at the very beginning and end)
2. Removing one character from each position in the string
3. Swapping every pair of adjacent characters in the string

```Set<String> suggestions = spellChecker.getSuggestions("misspelled_word");```

# Code
The spell checker is implemented in the SpellChecker class which implements the SpellCheckerInterface interface. It has three main methods:

`SpellChecker(String filename)` - constructor that loads the dictionary.

`getIncorrectWords(String filename)` - checks a text file for spelling mistakes.

`getSuggestions(String word)` - provides spelling suggestions for a given word.
